hey guys welcome to lingo arena today's
video is about 55
common phrases for different situations
in english
i think that when you start to learn a
language
the best way to do it is to start
learning phrases
that native speakers use because once
you master those phrases
you can start using them and the faster
you're able to talk to people
the faster your progress will be so
today
we're gonna learn very basic phrases
that you can start using right away in
different conversations
with native speakers phrase number one
the most basic
is hello it's actually one word this is
how you greet people
when you meet them for the first time
you say hello
hello then the next phrase
is very basic you introduce yourself
and you say my name is and what is your
name
my name is marina what is your name
this is a very basic phrase when you
introduce yourself
my name is kent what's your name now i'm
pretty sure you knew those phrases
but there is another phrase that is also
very useful
sometimes you start talking to people
and you realize you forgot their name
so the phrase that you use in this
situation is a phrase that sounds like
i'm sorry i don't remember your name you
are
and there you stop and the person
responds with his or her
name and you are when you are
in a big company of people and you came
with your friend
you can introduce your friend by saying
please
meet my imaginary friend name is i don't
john
please meet john graham please meet
mr anderson or another way to do that
is just to say this is john this is john
now when you've introduced yourself and
the other person introduced
him or herself as well then you can just
respond to them by saying
nice to meet you nice to meet you or you
can also say
pleased to meet you please me or you can
just say
it's a pleasure it's a pleasure now
let's move on to the next situation
you are in a foreign city foreign
country and you're asking for
information in english it is not very
polite to
ask the question directly like how do i
get to the metro station
this is a little implied the way you ask
that in english
is could you please tell me and then you
ask a question could you please tell me
where is the nearest grocery store
excuse me could you tell me where i
could find the manager please
or can you tell me how i can get to the
city center
can you tell me if you are
unsure that the person knows the answer
to your question
you can say do you know how i can get to
the city center from here
do you know how to how to get yeah or
another way to say that do you have any
idea
how to get to the city center from here
do you have any idea
and the most indirect phrase that you
can use is you can say i wonder
if you could tell me how to get to the
city center
[Music]
say ma'am i wonder if you could tell me
how to get to heal a flats
now moving on to the next situation
event
small talk so basically what happens
during big
events that are forbidden in most of the
states right now but
in some states they're already happening
you come to meet a lot of people
you see the whole new crowd and you want
to start a conversation
and a small talk you know discussing
different things different random things
it's a great conversation starter here
are a couple of examples
example number one if you like the venue
you can say
what a great place for the event and
then you start discussing oh yeah
that was so thoughtful of them to rent
this beautiful studio
to create this video what a great place
or you can start a conversation with
someone by asking
how did you hear about this event so how
did you hear about our little secret
coffee spot
and another way to start a conversation
with a person that you don't know
you can ask are you from here especially
if you're in a big city with a lot of
immigrants
are you from here another situation is
when you have to
interrupt someone in english especially
in england
it is considered more polite when you
are indirect
that means you're not saying you can you
tell me that
you start with yourself i am so sorry to
interrupt you
this really softens the interruption so
the phrase that you can use
sorry to cut in but i wanted to ask you
if you wanted to join me for dinner
tonight mind if i cut in using sorry
at the beginning really softens this
interruption
another phrase that you can use can i
just stop you here
for a moment and then you go and ask a
question why can't i just
stop you right there for a second the
next situation very common
ordering food at a restaurant here is
the set of phrases that you can use
while ordering food
for example if you look at the menu and
you see names that you don't recognize
for example bolognese you can say what
is valeniza like
and the waiter would go on and explain
you what's inside
that pasta if you're unsure what to
order
you can ask what can you recommend and
this is the phrase that i always use
when i go to restaurants
especially when i go to new restaurants
i always try to rely on waiter's advice
because they work at that place and they
know the best
what can you recommend from the menu
what do you recommend
when you're ready to order you can say
could i order the caesar salad please
if you want to reorder something you can
say can i get
another orange juice please can i get
another glass of chardonnay please and
in the end when you want to pay
there is this universal sign where
you're kind of signing
something in the air that means you're
asking for a bill
otherwise you can just say a phrase
could i have the bill please
that means you're ready to pay sorry
could i have to build
now the next situation can be very very
scary for english language learners
because
that situation is a business phone call
it is a lot easier to talk to people in
person
because you can see their body language
you can see their emotions
you can actually read lips if you have
confusion about what they're saying
telephone is a completely different
thing and sometimes it's a nightmare
my first calls in english were like
nightmare to me because my poems were
sweaty i was red
and i was like because it was really
hard to understand the person
on the other side of the phone because i
couldn't hear them well there were some
noises and i was trying to understand
when people talk to you on the phone for
the first time they do not assume that
you are a non-native speaker
so they maintain their regular tone and
speed of voice and you can be left
confused by what they said
but there are some phrases that can help
you at least to lead the conversation so
you don't have to think about what you
have to say
if you are calling to set up a meeting
you can say
i'd like to set up a meeting with you at
your earliest convenience
when are you free if you want to
schedule
a phone call you can say are you free to
talk
next week for example you're scheduling
a call with your immigration attorney
and you want to make sure that he has
enough time to talk to you
are you free next thursday or if you're
making an appointment you can say
that's thursday 2 30 pm work for you
does 8 pm work for you if you are the
one who initiated conversation
you can start it by saying we are here
today
to discuss and then you introduce the
topic we're here to discuss a business
contract or another phrase that you can
use
is you can say today i would like to
outline our plans
for and then you discuss the topic the
next situation is when you agree with
someone there are several phrases that
you can use
you can say exactly so instead of saying
yes oh yes of course
yes you're right use different phrases
because otherwise
you will be repeating yourself so you
can say exactly
as a way to agree with someone exactly
exactly my point another phrase is
absolutely that means you
agree 100 absolutely
and the last but not the least i
couldn't agree with you more
it's kind of similar to absolutely it
shows a 100
agreement thanks for saying that amen
and i
couldn't agree with you more there are
also situations when you disagree with
someone and there you can use other
phrases
instead of just saying no you're not
right
use phrases that are more polite for
example
i'm not sure about that i'm not so sure
about that
or you can say sorry but i think you've
missed the point
and then you introduce an argument in
favor of your opinion
i know the stories ander but you missed
the point
or you can just say i'm afraid i
disagree this phrase is a little too
strong that means you're like
100 disagree with that person
well i disagree mom the next situation
very common for
girls and boys who love shopping you're
at the store
there are several phrases that you can
use first phrase very common when a
shopping assistant approaches you and
asks what are you looking for
and you're just browsing you can either
say i'm just looking around
oh i'm just looking thanks or you can
say
thank you i don't need any help i'm just
browsing oh no you're just
browsing thank you or if you need
something particular you can say yes
please
i'm looking for a red dress from a party
i am looking for a tie if you want to
ask if there is any discount available
you can ask is this on sale if there is
a discount saying 10 percent
that means this item is 10 off
it's on sale another kind of bargain
that you can find is called
342 that means you take three pieces and
you only pay for two of them
if you want to see whether something
suits you or not you can ask
can i try this on and this question
is very popular these days because in
some countries fitting rooms are closed
and you can't actually
try things on can i try it on if you
want a discount
you can say can you do me a deal if
you're satisfied with the item you can
say great
i'll take it i'll take it
[Music]
if this item is a gift you can ask to
gift rapid can you please gift rabbit
for me that means can you wrap it as a
gift
do you think you could gift wrap it for
me please and at this stage the
salesperson would ask you how would you
like to pay buy
cash or by card and you reply i would
like to pay by cash or
i would like to pay by card how would
you like to pay a credit card
if you have a coupon for the store maybe
you had a magazine with something you
could cut out or maybe you found
something on the internet you show this
and you can say
can i redeem this can i redeem my coupon
hello i would like to redeem this coupon
then another situation no very pleasant
one is when you
are late there are several phrases that
can help you
in that situation i am sorry for being
late you apologize
for not being on time when somebody
calls you and asks where
are you we're already starting
everything you can say i'll be there
in 10 minutes i'll be there in 15
minutes
if you can't come then you can say
would it be possible to reschedule our
appointment for
the next week for tomorrow for late
afternoon
depending on when you can make it would
it be possible to schedule this call
please
when you finally arrive you can say
thank you for waiting
thank you for waiting or you can say i
am sorry
for keeping you waiting sorry for
keeping you waiting miss clark
and the last but not the least situation
is when you're ending the conversation
i gotta go thank you so much for staying
here with me today
oh yeah i don't have time to say thank
you because i really gotta go
it was really nice chatting with you
looking forward to seeing you soon
it was real nice chatting with you mr
school when you're in the middle of
conversation and you kind of feel it's a
little impolite to stop it right now
you can introduce your intent to stop
the conversation you can say
i'd better be going my baby's waiting
for me at home
i'd better be going or when you're with
your friends you're like
guys i really gotta go i have this exam
tomorrow and i have only two hours left
to prepare it was great to hang out with
you
but you know i gotta go and the last but
not the least
something that i would tell you right
now catch you later
catch you later thank you guys so much
for watching this video up to the very
end
if you're not yet subscribed to this
channel hit subscribe if you want to
practice more english with me
the link to my course for intermediate
learners will be below
hit it and you'll have access to my
classes where i teach you english
again thank you so much looking forward
to seeing you on my courses
and looking forward to seeing you on my
next videos bye bye